PERSISTENT CONNECTION
A persistent connection (or HTTP persistent connection), refers to a network communication channel that remains open for further HTTP requests and responses instead of closing after a single exchange. Persistent connections are also called HTTP keep-alive and HTTP connection reuse.
An example of where a persistent connection is important can be found in an internet user's request to open a webpage. Accessing the page requires multiple content elements to be downloaded, including images, text and scripts. Without a persistent connection, each of those elements would require a new connection to the web server, leading to delays in displaying the full page. With the system providing a persistent connection, the download is accelerated.

HTTP:
HTTP is an application-level protocol that typically runs on port 80. It uses Transmission Control Protocol(TCP) as an underlying transport protocol. TCP is a connection-oriented protocol. It starts a connection after confirmation from both ends that they are available and open to a data exchnage.

A persistent connection function in HTTP 1.1, introduced in 1997, and later versions allowed the channel to remain open rather than closing after a requested exchange of data. The goal is to use a single TCP connection to send multiple HTTP requests and receive multiple HTTP responses, instead of opening a new connection for every request-response pair.

In early web technology based on HTTP 1.0, the server always closed connections after sending the response. Persistent connections added to this protocol used an extra header to request the client keep the connection alive. HTTP 1.1 assumes all connections to be persistent unless otherwise specified. In other words, persistent connections are the default behavior of any connection in HTTP 1.1. The HTTP/2 protocol expands the idea to enable multiple requests and returns of data to be exchanged simultaneously, or multiplexed, over a single connection.